When we look at spreadsheets and tables full of text and numbers,
it's hard to tell much.
We might notice trends such as,
gee, there seem to be a lot of pitchers in this list.
And we can create some formulas to find out answers to questions like,
what percentage of the players are pitchers?
Well, now I'm wondering about all the other positions, outfielders, catchers.
It would be more helpful to see the data in one big picture.
Here's a pie chart of the percentages of all positions from the baseball set.
This is an example of visualizing the data.
When we visualize our data,
we understand it more fully.
And if you're explaining your data analysis to
someone else who's less familiar with it than you are,
that is especially important.
When looking at the data as a picture,
it's easier to notice patterns,
perhaps, spot trends to examine more closely.
In this lesson, you're going to learn how to make pie charts as well as bar charts,
scatter plots and line graphs from your data.
After learning how to create some of these basic graphs,
you'll learn how to create histograms,
which display the frequency of values in your data, and box plots,
which provide an added glance view of the statistical spread in your data.
As we work through these various charts,
you'll learn some formatting skills that make your charts clear and easy to understand.
We'll finish the lesson with a little more formatting to really polish
your skills for producing professional looking charts for data analysis reports.
You've come a long way in spreadsheets.
This lesson will have some challenges in it but you're ready for them.